Response codes (#32)
monstar-lab-oss/API-manifesto: README.md

## Status Codes

<details>
<summary>Click to see examples</summary>

#### ✅

It's ok to use all available response codes, [See list](https://www.restapitutorial.com/httpstatuscodes.html)

Here is a list of the commonly used

> #### 2xx
>  - 200 -> OK, used when on GET request with successful response 
>  - 201 -> Created, used on POST creating a record in DB
>  - 202 -> Accepted, used when request has been received, but processed async
>  - 204 -> No content, used when no response is send, eg on DELETE
> 
> #### 3xx
>  - 304 -> Not modified, used if If-Modified-Since header is send and nothing has changed since
>  
> #### 4xx
> 
>  - 400 -> Bad Request, used when request is no possible to process, remember to give more info
>  - 401 -> Unauthorized, used when authorization session is invalid or missing
>  - 403 -> Forbidden, used when a route / entity was requested, but users access level does not permit it 
>  - 404 -> Not Found, used when a route / entity was not found
>  - 405 -> Method not allowed, used when a route was hit with wrong method
>  - 422 -> Unprocessable Entity, used when validation rules on POST/PATCH/PUT are not followed
>  
> #### 5xx 
> 
> - 500 -> Internal server error, used for undefined server errors, should store a record in an Bug tracking tool like Bugsnag, Crashlytic, Rollbar, New relic   
> - 502 -> Bad Gateway, used when an internal service was not reachable, eg in micro service architecture
> - 503 -> Service Unavailable, used when an external service was not reachable, eg twilio.com 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 2xx
 - `200` -> **OK**, used when on `GET` request with successful response 
 - `201` -> **Created**, used on `POST` creating a record in DB
 - `202` -> **Accepted**, used when request has been received, but processed async
 - `204` -> **No Content**, used when no response is send, e.g. on `DELETE`

#### 3xx
 - `301`-> **Moved Permanently**, used if the resource has been moved to another `URI`
 - `304` -> **Not Modified**, used if `If-Modified-Since` header is send and nothing has changed since
 
#### 4xx

 - `400` -> **Bad Request**, used when request cannot be processed, remember to give more info
 - `401` -> **Unauthorized**, used when authorization session is invalid or missing
 - `403` -> **Forbidden**, used when a route / entity was requested, but users access level does not permit it 
 - `404` -> **Not Found**, used when a route / entity was not found
 - `405` -> **Method Not Allowed**, used when a route was hit with wrong method
 - `409` -> **Conflict**, used when an entity conflicts with another entity, e.g. duplicate entities / IDs
 - `422` -> **Unprocessable Entity**, used when validation rules on `POST/PATCH/PUT` are not followed
 - `429` -> **Too Many Requests**, used when you want to rate limit your API
 
#### 5xx 

- `500` -> **Internal Server Error**, used for undefined server errors, should store a record in an bug tracking tool like Bugsnag, Crashlytics, Rollbar, New relic
- `501` -> **Not Implemented**, used when you want to indicate that the feature/functionality is not implemented (yet)
- `502` -> **Bad Gateway**, used when an internal service was not reachable, e.g. in micro service architecture
- `503` -> **Service Unavailable**, used when an external service was not reachable, e.g. twilio.com 
- `504` -> **Gateway Timeout**, used to indicate that a request timed out (e.g. third party service took too long)
```
